# 2021/05/17 - Ruse Scheme shall be

Ruse Scheme, formely known as Arew Scheme, is at this stage, a
collection of Scheme libraries for Chez Scheme. There is a grand
scheme plan plot machination for it. Read on.

## What is a civilization kit?

A civilization kit is a software or set of software that ease the
organization of life. So far, there is really one civkit that is
mostly privateer that includes and is not limited to:

- Wikimedia project such as Wikipedia, Wikidata, Wiktionary...
- Google, Facebook, Github, Instagram, Twitter, Reddit, StackOverflow, Quora...
- Android, iOS, Firefox, Chrome..
- MacOS, FreeBSD, NetBSD, Windows, Debian, Fedora, Ubuntu...
- Mastodon, and other projects that rely on activitypub...

And many more... that is only the visible part of Earth software
system. They are software that aim to ease the the production of
software or hardware. They are also software that helps with
governance, provide tools to ease law making process, sustain
production chain of food, energy, medecine, culture, education...

They are a lot of software, and that collection form a civkit.

## Is Ruse Scheme a new Scheme?

Yes, and no. It depends what is meant by a new Scheme.

Sometime a Scheme is a software that gathers many Scheme libraries,
and rely on existing Scheme to execute their code. That is the case of
Ruse.

Most of the time, a Scheme is a software that interpret and/or compile
a lot of parentheses that is more or less compatible with RnRS. In
this regard, Ruse is a Scheme, but it is not completly new. It rely on
Chez Scheme to produce executables that can be run on a server or a
desktop. Ruse will support Web Assembly and JavaScript to run Scheme
in a Web browser.

Some Scheme implementation do a little of both, and also deliver
features that go beyond past or current RnRS. Ruse does that, and
shall reach beyond...

The main difference with existing Scheme implementations is not found
at the programming language level. Ruse is and will stay a Scheme.

The main area Ruse try to innovate is the rest: whether it is the the
production or sharing of code, Ruse aim to make it easier than sharing
a meme. Another area Ruse try to innovate is to state upfront the
scope of the project.

## What are the short term goal of Ruse Scheme?

The short term goal of Ruse Scheme is to build a scalable search
engine: Babelia. Babelia will both scale-up and scale-down in terms of
required hardware. In other words, it may run in the cloud or on a
Raspberry Pi.

That first milestone will demonstrate how to build a distributed Von
Neumann architecture that aim to be easier to work with than current
approaches.

This is the first milestone because it is easier than going fully
dencentralized first. It will deliver the necessary tools to work with
the current Internet.

The plan is to deliver Babelia in 2022.

## What is the next Internet?

The next Internet is an Internet that is more open, more
decentralized, more accessible, and resting upon the fundamental
principle.

## What is the distributed Von Neumann architecture?

The distributed Von Neumann architecture is like a regular computer
that rely on multiple commodity computers.

It is different from a compute grid, because it is not meant only for
batch processing.

In Babelia, that distributed computer has volatile memory,
non-volatile memory, possibly vectors or graphics processing units,
and generic computation units.

The goal is to make it easier to build software inside a trusted
network of computers.

## What are the mid term goals of Ruse Scheme?

Mid term goals of Ruse Scheme are three folds:

- Offer enough tooling to make it easier to create, sell and make a
  living by producing Scheme code. This includes making it painless to
  interop with existing software.

- Implement a package manager inspired from Nix, and backed up by
  content-addressable code that can be translated into multiple
  natural languages with the help of a decentralized peer-to-peer
  network.

- Explore a new operating system desktop paradigm resting upon the
  fundamental principle.

## What is the goal of Ruse Scheme?

The goal of Ruse Scheme is to build a coherant bootstrapable
whole-stack civkit for a sustainable civilization, resting upon the
fundamental principle.

## What is whole-stack?

Whole-stack build upon the full-stack concept to include programming
databases, and kernels.

## What is Ruse Scheme license?

Ruse Scheme is licensed under the Cooperative Non-violent Public
License without exceptions.

## What is the fundamental principle?

> If a system must serve the creative spirit, it must be entirely
> comprehensible by a single individual.
